Add jsondata and xmldata modules to release note (#8877)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2201.9.0/RELEASE_NOTE.md

## Ballerina library updates

### New features

#### `data.jsondata` module

> - Introduced the `data.jsondata` package to provide a set of APIs to work with JSON data.

Author: Do I need to add something like 
```
Introduced the `data.jsondata` package to provide a set of APIs, such as `parseString`, `parseBytes`, `parseStream` to convert JSON source, which can be provided as `string`, `byte[]`, `stream<byte[], error?>` repectively to subtypes of `anydata`. 
```
WDYT?

> - Introduced the `data.jsondata` package to provide a set of APIs to work with JSON data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introduced the `data.jsondata` package to provide a set of APIs for type conversions and data projections.
```
wdyt?

Author: It should be as below right?

Introduced the `data.jsondata` package to provide a set of APIs for JSON type conversions, data projections and json navigation.

Author: Updated https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8877/commits/542967ef6683be36f7d7c53bb289ca4adb747c9b

#### `data.xmldata` module

> - Introduced the `data.xmldata` package to provide a set of APIs for XML data conversions and data projection.

Author: Added samples [b0734ef](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8877/commits/b0734ef8a513042858cbd9d49ae326a76856fe3b)

## Ballerina library updates

### New features

> #### `data.jsondata` package

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Introduction of the `data.jsondata` package
```

> - Introduced the [`data.jsondata`](https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerina/data.jsondata/latest/) package to provide a set of APIs for JSON data conversions, data projection, and JSON navigation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [`data.jsondata`](https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerina/data.jsondata/latest/) package has been introduced to provide a set of APIs for JSON data conversions, data projection, and JSON navigation.
```

    ```ballerina
    import ballerina/data.jsondata;
    import ballerina/io;

    // Define a closed record type to capture the required fields from the JSON content.
    type Book record {|
        string name;
        string author;
    |};

    json jsonContent = {

>         "name": "Clean Code",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        name: "Clean Code",
```

Author: Updated https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8877/commits/12fab782acdad713fee4b93917915733faf8bbec

        author: "Robert C. Martin",
        year: 2008,
        publisher: "Prentice Hall"
    };

    string jsonStr = string `
    {
        "name": "The Pragmatic Programmer",
        "author": "Andrew Hunt, David Thomas",
        "year": 1999,
        "publisher": "Addison-Wesley"
    }`;

> 

Reviewer 2: I would move these closer to where they are used.

    public function main() returns error? {

>         // Based on the expected type, it selectively converts the JSON content to the record type.

Reviewer 2: May be better to mention that it includes just the two fields.

- Introduced GraphQL server-side caching support

> #### Introduction of the `data.jsondata` package

Reviewer 2: This is no longer consistent with the rest of this section. Shall we update? I guess we'll have to remove "Introduction of the "

> The [`data.jsondata`](https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerina/data.jsondata/latest/) package has been introduced support JSON data conversions, data projection, and navigation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [`data.jsondata`](https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerina/data.jsondata/latest/) package has been introduced to support JSON data conversions, data projection, and navigation.
```

> The [`data.jsondata`](https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerina/data.jsondata/latest/) package has been introduced to provide a set of APIs for JSON data conversions, data projection, and JSON navigation.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, missed this previously, but shall we use functions instead of APIs?

Author: Updated https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8877/commits/4b7f2abbd9a0299e5ce59414cb437488f4d2a2e5

> The [`data.jsondata`](https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerina/data.jsondata/latest/) package has been introduced to provide a set of functions for JSON data conversions, data projection, and JSON navigation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [`data.jsondata`](https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerina/data.jsondata/latest/) package has been introduced to support JSON data conversions, data projection, and navigation.
```

>     ##### Data Projection

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't make these subsections. Maybe bullet points. We don't need the bullet point in L89.

Author: We should have bullet point in L89 since other modules also follow the same pattern

> - Data projection: JSON data can be converted to a Ballerina record by specifying the required fields in the JSON data. This is helpful when dealing with large JSON data, where only a subset of fields are required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Data projection: JSON data can be converted to a Ballerina record by specifying only the required fields from the JSON data. This is helpful when the requirement is to extract a specific subset of fields from JSON data with a large number of fields.
```

    ```ballerina
    import ballerina/data.jsondata;
    import ballerina/io;

    // Define a closed record type to capture the required fields from the JSON content.
    type Book record {|
        string name;
        string author;
    |};

    public function main() returns error? {
        json jsonContent = {
            name: "Clean Code",
            author: "Robert C. Martin",
            year: 2008,
            publisher: "Prentice Hall"
        };
        // Based on the expected type, it includes only the `name` and `author` fields in the converted value.
        Book book = check jsondata:parseAsType(jsonContent);
        io:println(book);

        string jsonStr = string `
        {
            "name": "The Pragmatic Programmer",
            "author": "Andrew Hunt, David Thomas",
            "year": 1999,
            "publisher": "Addison-Wesley"
        }`;
        Book book2 = check jsondata:parseString(jsonStr);
        io:println(book2);
    }
    ```

>     ##### Json Navigation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ##### JSON Navigation
```

Add some information. There's nothing (other than comments) that convey JSONPath support here.

    
    ```ballerina
    import ballerina/data.jsondata;
    import ballerina/io;

    public function main() returns error? {
        json books = [
            {
                title: "The Great Gatsby",
                author: "F. Scott Fitzgerald",
                price: 100,
                year: 1925
            },
            {
                title: "To Kill a Mockingbird",
                author: "Harper Lee",
                price: 72.5,
                year: 1960
            },
            {
                title: "1984",
                author: "George Orwell",
                price: 90,
                year: 1949
            }
        ];

>         // JSONPath expression to get the list of titles in the books array.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // Use a JSONPath expression to extract the list of titles in the books array.
```

Let's update the rest accordingly.

        json titles = check jsondata:read(books, `$..title`);
        io:println(titles);

        // Use a JSONPath expression to extract the list of published years for the 
        // books that have a price value of more than 80.
        json years = check jsondata:read(books, `$..[?(@.price > 80)].year`);
        io:println(years);

        // Use a JSONPath expression to extract the total sum of the prices of the books.
        json sum = check jsondata:read(books, `$..price.sum()`);
        io:println(sum);
    }
    ```

#### `data.xmldata` package

The [`data.xmldata`](https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerina/data.xmldata/latest/) package has been introduced to provide a set of APIs for XML data conversions and data projection.

>     ```ballerina

Reviewer 2: Don't need indentation here.

- Introduced GraphQL server-side caching support

#### Introduction of the `data.jsondata` package

- The [`data.jsondata`](https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerina/data.jsondata/latest/) package has been introduced to provide a set of APIs for JSON data conversions, data projection, and JSON navigation.

    ```ballerina
    import ballerina/data.jsondata;
    import ballerina/io;

    // Define a closed record type to capture the required fields from the JSON content.
    type Book record {|
        string name;
        string author;
    |};

    public function main() returns error? {
        json jsonContent = {
            name: "Clean Code",
            author: "Robert C. Martin",
            year: 2008,
            publisher: "Prentice Hall"
        };
        // Based on the expected type, it only converts the `name` and `arthur` fields.
        Book book = check jsondata:parseAsType(jsonContent);
        io:println(book);

        string jsonStr = string `
        {
            "name": "The Pragmatic Programmer",
            "author": "Andrew Hunt, David Thomas",
            "year": 1999,
            "publisher": "Addison-Wesley"
        }`;

>         // Based on the expected type, it only converts the `name` and `arthur` fields.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to repeat this here?

        Book book2 = check jsondata:parseString(jsonStr);
        io:println(book2);
    }
    ```

#### Introduction of the `data.xmldata` package

> - The [`data.xmldata`](https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerina/data.xmldata/latest/) package has introduced to provide a set of APIs for XML data conversions and data projection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The [`data.xmldata`](https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerina/data.xmldata/latest/) package has been introduced to provide a set of APIs for XML data conversions and data projection.
```

    ```ballerina
    import ballerina/data.xmldata;
    import ballerina/io;

    // Define a closed record type to capture the required elements and attributes from the XML data.
    type Book record {|
        string name;
        string author;
    |};

    public function main() returns error? {
        xml xmlData = xml `
        <book>
            <name>Clean Code</name>
            <author>Robert C. Martin</author>
            <year>2008</year>
            <publisher>Prentice Hall</publisher>
        </book>`;
        // Based on the expected type, it only converts the `name` and `arthur` fields.
        Book book = check xmldata:parseAsType(xmlData);
        io:println(book);

        string xmlStr = string `
        <book>
            <name>Clean Code</name>
            <author>Robert C. Martin</author>
            <year>2008</year>
            <publisher>Prentice Hall</publisher>
        </book>`;

>         // Based on the expected type, it only converts the `name` and `arthur` fields.

Reviewer 2: Update/fix comments similarly.
